Okay,
guys.
And welcome to the The last lecture in the logical test in section on this one is
particularly useful.
We can work out if a value is true.
If multiple values are true,
if either value is true or any combination of true's or false is using ands and ors and if
then on else.
But generally we only have two choices there.
It either is all the criterion.
Evaluate,
true or false wherever testing full.
In which case do think number one off the ways Do thing number two,
but one if you have more than two things that you want doing well,
that is where the Select case method comes in.
And we're going to step through this step at the time where you know what,
most of the stuff does we use in a four next loop again,
Just gonna hit her face like sheikhly.
The contents range A to select notice,
though selecting a to hear of use this very neat trick to find out what Lionel last row is
.
So the code is completely dynamic.
I'm just gonna stroll up here so we can see the four and the next.
I'm just gonna Indem that a little bit.
Okay,
so,
select case.
Firstly,
we need to read into a variable my age,
which I've declared way out That up,
I think of declared it.
Well,
that's up.
Haven't even declared it way up this up.
Let's have a look.
Where have I declared it?
Hopefully locally.
Then I beg your pardon.
We set up the variable here,
so I've declared its locally so it can only be used in this sub dim my age as interject
because we're going to be looking at column D.
But I've purposely selected column A just to show that you can be in any column and still
test data in a different column.
So a to select Find out what my last row is on loop until we have reached my last row.
So my variable currently zero because we haven't executed this line of code equals active
cell offset.
No rows.
Three columns.
Remember,
we are in a so 0123 It is looking a column D Even though we are going down.
Kahlan A so f eight f ace,
my age equals 20.
Now,
this is the format of a select case.
Select case space the name of the variable that you wish to evaluate.
So in this instance,
it's my age.
So we've just read that from here,
so my age equals 20 and then we can perform as many operations as we want to.
So here we've said Case is less than 20.
If case,
which is now my age,
is less than 20 execute this line of code.
If it is less than 30 execute this line of code.
If it is less than 40 this line.
If it's less than 50 this'll line it is greater than 50 or equal to 50.
This line Now you don't have to just evaluate numbers.
If you were checking for names,
you could say Case is open,
quotes Connor Phillips close quotes and then have some code that excuse for Connor Phillips
or you could be vetting.
Let me have a look.
You could be vetting column B and say,
if case is male,
do this one thing.
If the case is female,
do something else or you could be checking date of birth.
You could be ST for anyone that's nearing retirement.
Whatever year that works out to be,
do this for those people that are not nearing retirement do something completely different
.
So this one just checks the age.
So let's sir,
step through it.
F eight Casey is less than 20.
Let's just hover over my age.
Well,
it actually is 20.
So I'm gonna hit their face and it skipped over that skipped over that on day it says 20
something that 20 is not below 20.
So it didn't say teenager,
but it is below 30.
So I am writing 20 something six columns across,
which is obviously in Jay and select.
That's how you finish a select case argument it begin.
Select case.
The name of the variable you want to test and they just this case is what you're evaluating
on what you wanted to do.
What you're evaluating,
what you wanted to do,
what you're evaluating,
what you wanted to do as many times as you want.
So f eight moved down a cell because we use in the range method Next,
loop up.
Get my next cells age,
which is 22 select case my age testing against all of these on.
There you go.
20 something another 20.
Something stepped through my age.
My age is now 24.
This is gonna be the same thing.
Uh,
badly arranged data.
Oh,
we go my age 53.
So it's going to skip.
This is going to skip that.
It's going to skip that greater than sorry.
Greater less than 50.
Still that we are,
she's gonna We were 53 so over 50 no comment on moved on again on 30 something.
I'm just gonna hold this now,
there,
coming there,
coming through something.
Something like just beginning on hit play until we get to the end.
So there you go.
That is absolutely everything you'll ever need to know about logical testing.
You have a few programming projects in there.
You'll see them in in the fall when you download it.
I highly suggest you do at least the 1st 1 or two just so you can get you used to change in
the criteria that you're evaluating or converting.
Arrange piece of code to cells because cells is more efficient.
As I say,
I normally right using cell references so I can watch what's happening in Excel,
but sells code runs faster.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture